feat: re-export apify-client errors from apify.errors (#990)
apify/apify-sdk-python: docs/02_concepts/13_exceptions.mdx

---
id: error-handling
title: Error handling
description: The exceptions an Actor can raise and how to handle them
---

import HandleCallErrorsSource from '!!raw-loader!roa-loader!./code/13_handle_call_errors.py';
import RetryTimedOutSource from '!!raw-loader!roa-loader!./code/13_retry_timed_out.py';
import ApiLink from '@theme/ApiLink';
import RunnableCodeBlock from '@site/src/components/RunnableCodeBlock';

> When you run an Actor, exceptions come from a few layers: the Apify API client for failed API requests, the Apify SDK for misuse and invalid input, and the libraries you build on, such as Crawlee. This page maps the ones you are most likely to meet and how to approach each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run an Actor, exceptions come from a few layers: the Apify API client for failed API requests, the Apify SDK for misuse and invalid input, and the libraries you build on, such as Crawlee.
```

## Errors from the Apify API

> Every SDK operation that talks to the Apify API can raise <ApiLink to="class/ApifyApiError">`ApifyApiError`</ApiLink>. This includes <ApiLink to="class/Actor#start">`Actor.start`</ApiLink>, <ApiLink to="class/Actor#call">`Actor.call`</ApiLink>, <ApiLink to="class/Actor#abort">`Actor.abort`</ApiLink>, <ApiLink to="class/Actor#metamorph">`Actor.metamorph`</ApiLink>, <ApiLink to="class/Actor#add_webhook">`Actor.add_webhook`</ApiLink>, charging, and all storage operations on datasets, key-value stores, and request queues. The SDK raises these client exceptions as-is, so you keep the HTTP status code, the error type, and the response data on the exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every SDK operation that talks to the Apify API can raise <ApiLink to="class/ApifyApiError">`ApifyApiError`</ApiLink> that includes <ApiLink to="class/Actor#start">`Actor.start`</ApiLink>, <ApiLink to="class/Actor#call">`Actor.call`</ApiLink>, <ApiLink to="class/Actor#abort">`Actor.abort`</ApiLink>, <ApiLink to="class/Actor#metamorph">`Actor.metamorph`</ApiLink>, <ApiLink to="class/Actor#add_webhook">`Actor.add_webhook`</ApiLink>, charging, and all storage operations on datasets, key-value stores, and request queues. The SDK raises these client exceptions as-is, so you keep the HTTP status code, the error type, and the response data on the exception.
```

<ApiLink to="class/ApifyApiError">`ApifyApiError`</ApiLink> dispatches to a subclass based on the HTTP status code:

- <ApiLink to="class/UnauthorizedError">`UnauthorizedError`</ApiLink> (401) and <ApiLink to="class/ForbiddenError">`ForbiddenError`</ApiLink> (403) for an unauthorized or forbidden request.

> - <ApiLink to="class/NotFoundError">`NotFoundError`</ApiLink> (404) when the Actor, run, or storage does not exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <ApiLink to="class/NotFoundError">`NotFoundError`</ApiLink> (404) when the Actor, run, or storage doesn't exist.
```

- <ApiLink to="class/ConflictError">`ConflictError`</ApiLink> (409) for a conflicting request.
- <ApiLink to="class/RateLimitError">`RateLimitError`</ApiLink> (429) when the API rate limit is hit.
- <ApiLink to="class/ServerError">`ServerError`</ApiLink> for any 5xx response.
- <ApiLink to="class/InvalidRequestError">`InvalidRequestError`</ApiLink> (400) when the API rejects the request as malformed.

The client retries rate-limited and server errors on its own, so you only see <ApiLink to="class/RateLimitError">`RateLimitError`</ApiLink> or <ApiLink to="class/ServerError">`ServerError`</ApiLink> once those retries are exhausted. The `apify.errors` module re-exports the whole client error hierarchy, so you can import everything from one place:

```python
from apify.errors import ApifyApiError, NotFoundError, RateLimitError
```

> Catch <ApiLink to="class/ApifyApiError">`ApifyApiError`</ApiLink> to handle any API failure in one place, then branch on the subclass or the HTTP `status_code`. To react to a specific failure, catch its subclass first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To handle any API failure in one place, catch <ApiLink to="class/ApifyApiError">`ApifyApiError`</ApiLink>, then branch on the subclass or the HTTP `status_code`. To react to a specific failure, catch its subclass first:
```

<RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
    {HandleCallErrorsSource}
</RunnableCodeBlock>

## Misuse and invalid input

> The SDK raises standard Python exceptions when it is used incorrectly or given invalid input. These point to a bug or a bad argument in your code, so the fix is to correct the call rather than to catch the exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK raises standard Python exceptions when it's used incorrectly or given invalid input. These exceptions point to a bug or a bad argument in your code, so the fix is to correct the call rather than to catch the exception.
```
We should avoid "lonely" demonstratives, a noun should follow.

- [`TypeError`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#TypeError) for an argument of the wrong type.
- [`ConnectionError`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#ConnectionError) when <ApiLink to="class/Actor#create_proxy_configuration">`Actor.create_proxy_configuration`</ApiLink> verifies Apify Proxy access and the proxy reports that you have none.

## Run failures

<ApiLink to="class/Actor#call">`Actor.call`</ApiLink> and <ApiLink to="class/Actor#call_task">`Actor.call_task`</ApiLink> wait for the run to finish and return it, whatever its final status. A finished run can be `SUCCEEDED`, `FAILED`, `ABORTED`, or `TIMED-OUT`, so check `run.status` before you rely on the run's output. A timed-out run is the one case where retrying can help, as long as you give it more time:

<RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
    {RetryTimedOutSource}
</RunnableCodeBlock>

## The pay-per-event charge limit

> Reaching the pay-per-event charge limit does not raise an error. The SDK caps charging and data pushing instead, and your Actor keeps running. When a single <ApiLink to="class/Actor#charge">`Actor.charge`</ApiLink> call would cross the limit, only the part that fits within the budget is billed, and `charged_count` on the returned <ApiLink to="class/ChargeResult">`ChargeResult`</ApiLink> reports how many events went through. <ApiLink to="class/Actor#push_data">`Actor.push_data`</ApiLink> behaves the same way when given a `charged_event_name`, writing only the items that fit within the budget. To detect the limit, check the `event_charge_limit_reached` field on the `ChargeResult`. It is a return value rather than an exception, so you can read it in a tight charging loop and stop your work once the budget runs out. For details, see [Pay-per-event monetization](./pay-per-event).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reaching the pay-per-event charge limit doesn't raise an error. Instead, the SDK caps charging and data pushing, while your Actor keeps running. When a single <ApiLink to="class/Actor#charge">`Actor.charge`</ApiLink> call crosses the limit, only the part that fits within the budget is billed, and `charged_count` on the returned <ApiLink to="class/ChargeResult">`ChargeResult`</ApiLink> reports how many events went through. <ApiLink to="class/Actor#push_data">`Actor.push_data`</ApiLink> behaves the same way when given a `charged_event_name`. It writes only the items that fit within the budget. 

To detect the limit, check the `event_charge_limit_reached` field on the `ChargeResult`. It's a return value and not an exception, so you can read it in a tight charging loop and stop your work once the budget runs out. For details, see [Pay-per-event monetization](./pay-per-event).
```

## Errors while crawling

> If your Actor runs a [Crawlee](https://crawlee.dev/python) crawler, failures inside request handlers surface as Crawlee exceptions, and Crawlee handles the retries and session rotation around them, so a single failing request does not stop the crawl. API calls you make from inside a handler still raise <ApiLink to="class/ApifyApiError">`ApifyApiError`</ApiLink>, so handle those as in the first section. For details, see the [Crawlee documentation](https://crawlee.dev/python).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Actor runs a [Crawlee](https://crawlee.dev/python) crawler, failures inside request handlers surface as Crawlee exceptions. Crawlee handles the retries and session rotation around them, so a single failing request doesn't stop the crawl. API calls you make from inside a handler still raise <ApiLink to="class/ApifyApiError">`ApifyApiError`</ApiLink>. For how to handle those errors, see [Errors from the Apify API](#errors-from-the-apify-api).
```
